Hello and welcome to this new to toile I'm pretty excited about this one because as you can see by the
title of the code section we're going to get very close to the training because indeed in this tutorial
we're going to set up the lust for the optimizer and we're going to apply some great unclipping great
tipping for those of you who don't know what that is.
This is a technique actually some operations that will cap the gradient in the graph between a minimum
value and a maximum value and that's to avoid some exploding or vanishing gradient issues.
And so we're going to make sure to avoid these issues by applying gradient tipping to our optimizer.
And so we are going to define a new scope here which will contain two elements to final ultimate elements
that we'll use for the training which are going to be the last error and the optimizer with grading
tipping.
The last error is going to be based on a weighted cross entropy loss error which is the most relevant
loss to use when dealing with sequences as we are doing right now and in general when dealing with deep
and LP and the optimizer that we're going to use will be first an atom optimizer which is one of the
best optimizers for us to cast a great descent.
And then we will apply gradiently ping to that optimizer to avoid exploding or vanishing great issues.
And so let's do this let's define the scope.
You already know how to define a scope.
We did that for the decoding scope.
So we need to take our sense of library and then the name scope function to which we need to input the
name of this scope in quotes.
And we're going to choose the name up Tim zation are right that our optimization scope and inside the
scope we're going to set up these two essential tools for the training that is the last error.
And the optimizer with great unclipping applied.
So let's start with the last error.
We're going to introduce a new variable.
Last error and that we will get it things to the sequence last function by tenths of a.
So let's get this model T.F. then we get it from contrib.
And then there we go we get our Sec 2 sec Mudgal from which we will get that sequence last function.
All right so the sequences function and that's going to take several arguments the first two arguments
as usual when dealing with the last function is going to be first the predictions and the target.
And since right now we're preparing the training these are going to be our training predictions that
we just got in the previous toil.
So training predictions first and then the second argument is of course going to be the target and I'm
going to put them right below so that you can see them better the targets.
And that's of course because we're going to measure the last error between the training predictions
and the targets.
Right so that's the two most essential arguments.
But then we have some new arguments which will correspond to the weight.
And so we have to prepare this tensor of weights initialize them all to once.
And of course with the right time engines so to initialize the weight as intensive ones.
Well we're going to use the tens of the library.
And then one of its function very useful function for that which is the one function the one function
that takes on one argument that we have to put in square brackets and that's of course the shape as
we can see here.
The other ones are optional.
That's of course the shape of this tensor.
That is the dimensions of this tensor.
And so we're going to enter first the number of lines and then the number of columns.
So let's go with the number of lines the number of lines of distances should be our input shape of index
0.
That's the first dimension.
And then the second dimension is going to be the sequence length and that's perfect.
We already got previously the input shape right here when getting the shape of the input sensor.
And we got the sequence length just before our eyes.
And that should be the diamond sions of the center of weights all initialized to once perfect.
That gives us the last error.
So that's our first essential tool for the training.
And now we're going to prepare the second essential tool which is the optimizer.
And so we're going to do that in three steps.
First we'll get the atom optimizer which will be an object of the atom optimizer class.
Then second step we will prepare gradiently being that we will cap our gradients between the minimum
value and the maximum value and then eventually we will apply gradiently being to our optimizer.
All right.
So let's go with the first step.
The first step is to get the atom optimizer.
And therefore I am introducing a new variable here up to Mizer and this optimizer is going to be an
object at an optimizer class which is a class by tensor flow and taken from the Mudgal train ride train
from which we get the atom optimizer which is right here atom optimizer and this atom optimizer as every
optimizer class takes one fundamental element which is the learning rates the learning rate that we
are already prepared before in the hyper parameters right here learning rate equals 0.01.
We're starting with this value and if this doesn't work well we will tweak some other values.
So let's put the learning rate inside the arguments of our optimizer learning rate and there we go.
We have our optimizer and now next up next step as I said is to clip all our gradients.
You know we have one gradient per neuron in the neural networks and for each of these neuron we compute
the gradient of the last error with respect to the weight of that neuron and all these gradients are
into a graph and are attached to a variable.
All right.
So now the first thing that we need to do is compute all these gradients and to compute them that's
where our optimizer comes in.
We're going to use a method from that optimizer which is the compute gradient method.
And that will compute these gradients of the last error with respect to the weights of each of the neurons.
So let's get them let's get our gradients.
Just introducing a new variable here Graydon's and we're going to get them as we said thanks to our
optimizer from which we apply to compute grades and function and this computes graden function takes
one essential argument which is the last error of which we want to compute the gradients with respect
to the weights and computing gradients is always with respect to the weight.
So we don't have to put the weights as argument but just the last area of which we want to compute the
gradient and therefore I'm entering here this last error which we got in the previous step last area.
So that computes all the gradients of the graph.
And now let's cap each one of these gradients.
And so I'm going to introduce a new viable that I'm going to call clipped gradients clipped gradients
that are going to be our gradients clipped by value and to show you what this means I'm going to walk
you through the Tenterfield documentation right now to show you two pages gradiently being that I will
share with you and the resources of this lecture and that explains to you what gradiently been is in
more details.
And this clip by value function that we're about to use to keep our gradients.
So as you can see this function takes three arguments the first one is the tensor of gradient that is
each of the tens of gradient among all the gradients in the graph.
Then the second argument is a minimum value below which the Graylands value cannot go.
And the third argument is the maximum value above which to Graydon's value cannot go will choose the
minimum to be minus five and the maximum to be five.
And that will keep our Graydon's in a way to avoid vanishing or exploding green issues.
So let's do this let's go back to Python and let's flip all our gradients so clipped gradients equals.
And now since we want to do that for each of the gradients of the graph we're going to have to make
a full up you know to loop over each one of these gradients.
And as I said a gradient in the graph is attached to a variable and therefore we are going to have two
new variables to the tensor itself and the variable attached to it.
And we're not going to make a full loop as we did before you know we are going to make this for loop
into some square brackets which is a trick technique to get these gradients directly inside a list and
therefore as we said we're going to start a for loop for we're going to loop over the two elements of
each of the gradients in the graph which are first the gradient tensor which I'm calling the great tensor
and it's variable that I'm calling the grad viable Gretton so Gred variable which basically means for
each gradient in all our gradients that we got in the previous line it was Graydon's here that we computed
things to compute graden function.
Thanks to our optimizer.
So for each of these gradients among all the gradients.
Well we're going to do something but before we do that we have to add some safety here to make sure
that the sensor of the gradient is existing and therefore I'm adding If the answer is not None.
That is if it is existing.
So now we have to loop perfect.
We make sure that the great intenser is existing and therefore let's specify what we want to do for
each of these gradients and we have to specify this before the loop and that's well we use the clip
by value function to clip each one of our great intenser but to keep track of each gradient.
We're going to form a couple here and this couple will actually be the gradient as a whole in the graph
which you know is composed of two elements to grade intenser and the variable and therefore And this
couple of parenthesis here to introduce first the tensor that we're going to clip things to the by value
function and then the variable which is the other variable in our loop.
So first let's get the first element of the gradient as a whole which is the grad tensor and that we
want to clip by value applying the clip by value function that we take from tensor for of course T.F.
that Kibei value that will clip by value this great tensor from as we said minus five to plus five.
And it's better to use floats here.
So I'm adding a dot decimal from minus five point zero to plus five point zero and this clip's the tensor
of the gradient we're dealing with right now in the loop but which will be done for all the great answers
of the gradients in the graph.
All right.
And now the second element of the gradient is its variable that we called Gred variable and therefore
I'm including the second element here.
Great variable.
All right so basically in this loop here we're just clipping the tensors of each of the gradients in
the graph that we computed before thanks to the complete Graydon's method of our optimizer.
All right so great so now we have our clipped gradients and we have one final step to do which is to
apply gradient tipping to our optimizer.
So let's do this let's get our new optimizer that we're going to call optimizer gradient clipping which
exactly is the optimizer on which grading clipping was applied and to apply it.
Well we need to take our previous optimizer the atom optimizer object that we created from the atom
optimizer class and then from this object we're going to apply one of the methods of the optimizer class
which is this one Plag regions.
And of course this is going to take one arguments which are going to be the new gradients that we got
and that we kept in the previous line and therefore I'm entering here are clipped gradients.
Perfect.
We just set up the last error the optimizer and gradiently.
And that's a very good thing done for the training.
So now we have a few steps left to do before the training.
And in two or three tutorials we'll start the big four loop of the training.
So now I'm going to leave you with this code section that I'm going to execute.
And until then and Gelperin I'll be.